README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<h1>Product Engineer Manifesto</h1>
</div>

We consider ourselves *Builders* first, software engineers second.

Our craft combines *Product Thinking* with technical execution.

We concern ourselves with matters of design and quality in the technical,
aesthetic, and business domains, taking an active part in each to shape the
product and empower others to do the same.

We take great professional pride in our products as a whole and refuse to
limit ourselves to technical-only roles in our teams.

Our shared goal is simply to build great products, and recognize that achieving
this requires builders who deeply understand the customer's needs.

## The Product Engineer Mindset

In our work as *Product Engineers*, we have come to value:

- **Continuous delivery of working software** over promises and estimations
- **Asking why** to deeply understand the customer problem before diving into code
- **Customer collaboration and feedback** over tickets and second-hand knowledge
- **Teamwork and communication** over picking up tasks and working in isolation
- **Using the product ourselves** over relying on others to test our software
- **Strategic thinking** and understanding the market and context you're operating in

## Sources

Posts written by various people about the Product Engineer role:

- [What is a Product Engineer? by Viljami Kuosmanen (@anttiviljami)](https://dev.to/epilot/what-is-a-product-engineer-1kpg)
- [The Product-Minded Software Engineer by Gergely Orosz (Pragmatic Engineer)](https://blog.pragmaticengineer.com/the-product-minded-engineer/)
- [Product engineers by Sherif Mansour (Atlassian)](https://sherifmansour.medium.com/product-engineers-f424da766871)
- [From Code Monkey to Product Engineer by Saranga Buwaneka](https://saranga.dev/from-code-monkey-to-product-engineer-the-evolution-of-software-engineering-in-the-age-of-llms-3c79a508464d)

## Signatures

[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/anttiviljami/product-engineer-manifesto?style=social)](https://github.com/anttiviljami/product-engineer-manifesto/stargazers)

[![Stargazers](https://reporoster.com/stars/anttiviljami/product-engineer-manifesto)](https://github.com/anttiviljami/product-engineer-manifesto/stargazers)

Star this repository to show your support for the Product Engineer Manifesto above!

## Website

[productengineer.org](https://productengineer.org)

Commit message:

Add link to product engineer checklist

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<h1>Product Engineer Manifesto</h1>
</div>

We consider ourselves *Builders* first, software engineers second.

Our craft combines *Product Thinking* with technical execution.

We concern ourselves with matters of design and quality in the technical,
aesthetic, and business domains, taking an active part in each to shape the
product and empower others to do the same.

We take great professional pride in our products as a whole and refuse to
limit ourselves to technical-only roles in our teams.

Our shared goal is simply to build great products, and recognize that achieving
this requires builders who deeply understand the customer's needs.

## The Product Engineer Mindset

In our work as *Product Engineers*, we have come to value:

- **Continuous delivery of working software** over promises and estimations
- **Asking why** to deeply understand the customer problem before diving into code
- **Customer collaboration and feedback** over tickets and second-hand knowledge
- **Teamwork and communication** over picking up tasks and working in isolation
- **Using the product ourselves** over relying on others to test our software
- **Strategic thinking** and understanding the market and context you're operating in

## The Product Engineer Checklist

[How to think like a Product Engineer (link)](https://dev.to/epilot/the-product-engineer-checklist-469d)

## Sources

Posts written by various people about the Product Engineer role:

- [What is a Product Engineer? by Viljami Kuosmanen (@anttiviljami)](https://dev.to/epilot/what-is-a-product-engineer-1kpg)
- [The Product-Minded Software Engineer by Gergely Orosz (Pragmatic Engineer)](https://blog.pragmaticengineer.com/the-product-minded-engineer/)
- [Product engineers by Sherif Mansour (Atlassian)](https://sherifmansour.medium.com/product-engineers-f424da766871)
- [From Code Monkey to Product Engineer by Saranga Buwaneka](https://saranga.dev/from-code-monkey-to-product-engineer-the-evolution-of-software-engineering-in-the-age-of-llms-3c79a508464d)

## Signatures

[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/anttiviljami/product-engineer-manifesto?style=social)](https://github.com/anttiviljami/product-engineer-manifesto/stargazers)

[![Stargazers](https://reporoster.com/stars/anttiviljami/product-engineer-manifesto)](https://github.com/anttiviljami/product-engineer-manifesto/stargazers)

Star this repository to show your support for the Product Engineer Manifesto above!

## Website

[productengineer.org](https://productengineer.org)
